DOCS-11059 Snowflake Connector 1.0 (#1483)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: snowflake/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/snowflake-connector-studio.adoc

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Snowflake Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems in real time, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

> If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:snowflake-connector-reference.adoc[Snowflake Reference].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:snowflake-connector-reference.adoc[Snowflake Connector Reference].
```

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Snowflake Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

> 

Reviewer: optional edits for accessibility/avoiding naming types of UI elements...only if UI is clear enough to make this useful...:

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Mule Palette*, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
```

> . In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `snowflake` in the search field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Add Dependencies to Project*, type `snowflake` in the search field.
```

. Click *Snowflake Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Snowflake Connector:

* HTTP Listener +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* Scheduler +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP Listener source, follow these steps:

> 

Reviewer: ditto re. naming UI element types; see Lines 32, 33:

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP > Listener*.
```

. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.

> . On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of *Display Name*.
```

. Specify a value for the *Path* field.

> . Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP Listener source in the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *+* next to *Connector configuration* to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP Listener source in the app.
```

. On the *General* tab, specify connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Snowflake Connector, follow these steps:

> . In *Mule Palette*, select *Snowflake* and then select the desired operation.

Reviewer: This one is already done!

. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

> When you configure a connector, configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Snowflake system. Snowflake Connector supports <mention the types of authorization the connector supports>.

Reviewer: missing info in final sentence

Author: Thank you!

To configure the global element for Snowflake Connector, follow these steps:

> 

Reviewer: I won't add UI-type edits here; if you are implementing, follow the same tactic you have used earlier.

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. In the *General* tab, in *Required Libraries*, click *Configure* and select from the following options to install the required JDBC driver:
* *Add recommended libraries*
* *Use local file*
* *Add Maven dependency*
. In *Connection*, enter the following required information to configure authentication:
* *Account name* +

> Account name that was provided when registering for the Snowflake account

Reviewer: parallelism
```suggestion
Account name that was provided when registering for the Snowflake account.
```

* *Warehouse* +
Name of the virtual Snowflake warehouse to use. The specified warehouse must be an existing warehouse for which the specified account has privileges.
* *Database* +
Snowflake database to connect to. The specified database must be an existing database for which the specified account has privileges.
* *Schema* +
Snowflake database schema to use. The specified schema must be an existing schema for which the specified account has privileges.
+

> You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].

Reviewer: I know this is boilerplate, but...well...you know.... We always see new things each time.... Possible change to avoid modal verbs:
```suggestion
Either reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended) or enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
```
OR
```suggestion
Reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders. Alternatively, enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
```

. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Additional Connector Fields

> After you configure a global element for Snowflake Connector, configure the the other required fields for the connector. The required fields vary depending on which connector operation you use. 

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
After you configure a global element for Snowflake Connector, configure the other required fields for the connector. The required fields vary depending on which connector operation you use. 
```

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

> To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

Reviewer: modal removal:
```suggestion
To check for problems, view the app log:
```
